Ependymoma subgroupsamples (#555)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis: analyses/molecular-subtyping-EPN/README.md

                    <th>Gene expressions and CNV with  value</th>
                    <th>prioritized</th>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>PT_EPN_A</td>
                    <td>CXorf67_expr_zscore>3 and 1q_gain>0</td>
                    <td>Yes</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>PT_EPN_A</td>
                    <td>TKTL1_expr_zscore>3 and 1q_gain>0</td>
                    <td>Yes</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>PT_EPN_A</td>
                    <td>TKTL1_expr_zscore>3 and 1q_gain>0</td>
                    <td>Yes</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>PT_EPN_B</td>
                    <td>GPBP1_expr_zscore>3 and 6q_loss>0</td>
                    <td>Yes</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>PT_EPN_B</td>
                    <td>GPBP1_expr_zscore>3 and 6p_loss>0</td>
                    <td>Yes</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>PT_EPN_B</td>
                    <td>IFT46_expr_zscore>3 and 6q_loss>0</td>
                    <td>Yes</td>

>                 </tr>

Author: The earlier one is a duplicate by mistake. This one is 6p and 6q

>                 </tr>

Reviewer: Okay, that makes sense!

# Molecular Subtyping of Ependymoma 

<b>Module Authors:</b> Teja Koganti(<a href="https://github.com/tkoganti">@tkoganti</a>) and Josh Shapiro(<a href="https://github.com/jashapiro">@jashapiro</a>)

In this analysis we subtype ependymoma samples based on fusions, CNV, NFKB_pathway_GSEAscore, breaks_density-chromosomal_instability_CNV, breaks_density-chromosomal_instability_SV, GISTIC_focal_CN_CDKN2A and gene expression data

## Usage
`bash run-molecular-subtyping-EPN.sh`

> This above  script is designed to be run from this directory.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This above  script is designed to change to this directory to run, so it should run from any location.
```

## Folder content

1. <b>`00-subset-for-EPN.R`</b> is a script that takes subsets only  ependymoma samples expression data for CI. The script uses `pbta-histologies.tsv` file to filter for ependymoma samples and     `pbta-gene-expression-rsem-fpkm-collapsed.stranded.rds` file for expression  data

2. <b>`01-make_notebook_RNAandDNA.py`</b> is a script that filters WGS  and RNA-seq ependymoma samples from `pbta-histologies.tsv` file and adds `disease_group` column to the output file based on the primary_site. The values for `disease_group` are supratentorial/infratentorial/undetermined

3. <b>`02_ependymoma_generate_all_data.py`</b>  is a script that takes in expression, GISTIC, fusion, breakpoint, GISTIC, GSVA files to add values from these tables as new columns to the input notebook. Output from `01-make_notebook_RNAandDNA.py` script is used as input notebook. The output notebook from this is saved to `results/EPN_all_data.tsv`

> 

Reviewer: It looks like we need to add a description of `03-subgrouping_samples.py` here.

Reviewer 2: Can we also add some documentation about the logic used for subtyping? There's an example at the bottom of this section of the `molecular-subtyping-LGAT` README: https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/tree/65180c183c0828dd093dd99a47b689ff3a76999f/analyses/molecular-subtyping-LGAT#order-of-scripts-in-analysis

I don't think this is spelled out anywhere.
